D2.md, before:

# Deliverable Two

# Positioning  
### 1.1  Problem Statement  
The problem of committing to goals affects goal oriented people, the impact of which is that the people give up on those goals.  

### 1.2  Product Position Statement  
For goal oriented people who struggle to keep track of progress, App Calandar App is a calendar app that helps keep track of goals and habits using color coordination unlike Streaks, which does not display progress using colors or a calendar.  

### 1.3  Value Proposition and Consumer Segment
**FVP:** Project Calandar Project is a free calendar app that helps users track habits and routines on a daily basis. Individuals can track their workout routines, eating habits, smoking habits, and other habits in a visual way which provides the individual with instant feedback. This gives the user gratification and motivation to continue keeping up with their habits. Our product is unique in that the user of the calandar app can extensively customize the colors of the app’s user interface and receive reminders about user habits.
Consumer Segments:
- Students
- Productivity enthusiasts
- Health and Fitness people
- People looking to break bad habits  

# Stakeholders:
- 

# Functional Requirements  

# Non-functional Requirements  

# MVP

# Use Cases

# User Stories

# Issue Tracker
https://trello.com/b/DBgag9Ex/project-calandar-project-board-calandar-board

#####Calvins contribution

Commit message:

Added and formatted user stories

D2.md, after:

# Deliverable Two

# Positioning  
### 1.1  Problem Statement  
The problem of committing to goals affects goal oriented people, the impact of which is that the people give up on those goals.  

### 1.2  Product Position Statement  
For goal oriented people who struggle to keep track of progress, App Calandar App is a calendar app that helps keep track of goals and habits using color coordination unlike Streaks, which does not display progress using colors or a calendar.  

### 1.3  Value Proposition and Consumer Segment
**FVP:** Project Calandar Project is a free calendar app that helps users track habits and routines on a daily basis. Individuals can track their workout routines, eating habits, smoking habits, and other habits in a visual way which provides the individual with instant feedback. This gives the user gratification and motivation to continue keeping up with their habits. Our product is unique in that the user of the calandar app can extensively customize the colors of the app’s user interface and receive reminders about user habits.
Consumer Segments:
- Students
- Productivity enthusiasts
- Health and Fitness people
- People looking to break bad habits  

# Stakeholders:
- 

# Functional Requirements  

# Non-functional Requirements  

# MVP

# Use Cases

# User Stories
- As a user, I want to be able to see how many [units of time] in a row I’ve completed a certain event to see how much progress I’ve made.
- As a user, I want to be able to color code my events to quickly see progress at a glance.
- As a user, I want to be reminded to use the calendar so I can keep up with my goals.
- As a personal trainer, I want to share how often I train in order to motivate my clients.
- As a user, I want to make notes on my calendar so I know exactly what I accomplished each day.
- As a user, I want to subcategorize some goals into smaller ones so that I can see what might prevent me from reaching that goal.
- As a user, I want to be rewarded for reaching my goals so that I can feel accomplished.
- As a user, I would like to be able to share my goals with my friends so that we can hold each other accountable.
- As a student, I want to be able to track all of my class assignments in a single calendar so I can keep on top of all of them.
- As a pet owner, I want to be able to keep track of when I have fed my animals each day so that I do not forget.
- As a smoker, I want to be able to see how much money I have saved by not buying cigarettes so I know the benefit of my efforts.
- As a gym goer, I want to be able to mark the days I met my workout goals to keep track of my progress.

# Issue Tracker
https://trello.com/b/DBgag9Ex/project-calandar-project-board-calandar-board
