D6.md, before:

# D6 Implementation 2

### Introduction
- Describe system
- Contain value proposition and main features
- GitHub and Trello links (Up to date)
- 1 to 2 paragraphs plus links

### Implemented Requirements
- List requirements (user stories, issues or use cases) implemented in release
- For each requirement:
    - Trello link that describes requirement
    - Name of who implemented requirement AND link to pull request on GitHub
    - Name of who reviewed and approved the pull request
    - Screen shot/Print screen of implemented feature if applicable

### Demo
- Video of working system
- Basically cover everything

### Code Quality
Back-End:  
	- Javadocs on all of our methods to facilitate understanding  
	- One true brace method for all code  
	- No one letter variables (excluding i for indexing)  
	- Meaningful method/variable/class names  
	- Each object had one purpose and we ensured that each part did its part well  
	- Looked for ways to reduce coupling within code  
	- Frequent meetings to discuss implementation  
	- Constant questioning to ensure high quality outcomes  

### Lessons Learned
- Describe what the team learned during the second release and what would change if development continued
- Problems encountered AND solutions to them
- Future implementations, possible issues and possible ideas to overcome
Back-end:  
	- If development continued we would update our databases, as Spring has its own implementation, and SQL is an option, but due to our inexperience, we developed a simple csv database.
	- We would change the users to be more secure, possibly with a password
	- A bigger struggle than expected was the jump to multi-user support. Our code for first release did not work as expected, and so our multi-user code did not work when implemented. So we debugged the previous methods. Our solution involved the user objects working with the data for each of the days.
	- Another issue was determining what would be included in the summary class. To figure this out, we looked at the summary type objects in other systems, and built our based off of that. So we included the days in a row an activity was completed, as well as the amount of activities, etc.
	- Some issues involve the inefficiency of our database. Currently, it is simply a large csv with all of the data stored in it, which is O(n) complexity, and is thus very slow as the number of users increases. This is something that would be fixed in future implementations.

Commit message:

Introduction and links added to D6

D6.md, after:

# D6 Implementation 2

### Introduction
Our system works as a phone interface that for a user to interact with. They will begin by creating their account using a username input, this communicates with our Spring BOOT server application to create a user ID that's associated with their account. This ID is used by the client side application to lookup their data and make adjustments to their color set data that is loaded back in on app start up. Maintaining a users information is key to functionality between launches. A user creates their activities and is populated with data from the server. The server delivers the information through http requests, the data is processed and the color the user has assigned to their complete and incomplete values populates within the visible calendar. Updates are then set back to the server to update values to be consistent with input. The server side also writes usernames/ID to one CSV, and the data associated with days and the users associated with those days to another file when the server side is taken down to update to a new version. After the new one is loaded it reads in the CSV files to the user and dayData database list arrays to be manipulated by the client application.

Project Calandar Project is a free calendar app that helps users track habits and routines on a daily basis. Individuals can track their workout routines, eating habits, smoking habits, and other habits in a visual way which provides the individual with instant feedback. This gives the user gratification and motivation to continue keeping up with their habits. Our product is unique in that the user of the calandar app can extensively customize the colors of the app’s user interface and receive reminders about user habits. While we've held as true to this as we can, features are a work in progress and are planned for future implementations.

Links:
https://github.com/TJohnsonAZ/Calandar-Project
https://trello.com/b/DBgag9Ex/project-calandar-project-board-calandar-board

- It is harder than ever to alter our habits to change things like biting our nails or reading more often. In an age of smartphones, technology, and endless distractions, App Calandar App is streamlined to minimize time spent on the app. It allows you to create calendars for tracking any type of habit. From there, you can set up reminders, modify the appearance of your calendar, connect with friends, and receive rewards for consistency. The server stores user information which allows their data to synced from the server to the app regardless of device. The user is able to create any number of calendars in order to better organize their habits. Upon creating a calendar, a status color is chosen by the user to be associated with the activity being tracked. These colors are used to describe whether an activity was completed for a specific day in the calendar. There will be a broader view of the calendar in order to see what days have been marked and receive instant feedback on their progress. The system will send the user a notification reminding them to mark the activities that they have completed for the day. The user may create a counter that can be assigned to a specific activity. This counter will be used to track a running total of the tracked activity. The user will be able to leave a note to add details about their activity for each day.

- Describe system
- Contain value proposition and main features
- GitHub and Trello links (Up to date)
- 1 to 2 paragraphs plus links

### Implemented Requirements
- List requirements (user stories, issues or use cases) implemented in release
- For each requirement:
    - Trello link that describes requirement
    - Name of who implemented requirement AND link to pull request on GitHub
    - Name of who reviewed and approved the pull request
    - Screen shot/Print screen of implemented feature if applicable

### Demo
- Video of working system
- Basically cover everything

### Code Quality
Back-End:  
	- Javadocs on all of our methods to facilitate understanding  
	- One true brace method for all code  
	- No one letter variables (excluding i for indexing)  
	- Meaningful method/variable/class names  
	- Each object had one purpose and we ensured that each part did its part well  
	- Looked for ways to reduce coupling within code  
	- Frequent meetings to discuss implementation  
	- Constant questioning to ensure high quality outcomes  

### Lessons Learned
- Describe what the team learned during the second release and what would change if development continued
- Problems encountered AND solutions to them
- Future implementations, possible issues and possible ideas to overcome
Back-end:  
	- If development continued we would update our databases, as Spring has its own implementation, and SQL is an option, but due to our inexperience, we developed a simple csv database.
	- We would change the users to be more secure, possibly with a password
	- A bigger struggle than expected was the jump to multi-user support. Our code for first release did not work as expected, and so our multi-user code did not work when implemented. So we debugged the previous methods. Our solution involved the user objects working with the data for each of the days.
	- Another issue was determining what would be included in the summary class. To figure this out, we looked at the summary type objects in other systems, and built our based off of that. So we included the days in a row an activity was completed, as well as the amount of activities, etc.
	- Some issues involve the inefficiency of our database. Currently, it is simply a large csv with all of the data stored in it, which is O(n) complexity, and is thus very slow as the number of users increases. This is something that would be fixed in future implementations.
